Add v13.1 release docs (#919)
inveniosoftware/docs-invenio-rdm: docs/releases/v13/version-v13.1.0.md

# InvenioRDM v13.1

*2026-03-19*

> We are happy to announce the release of InvenioRDM v13.1. This is a minor release, which will be maintained as a part of v13.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are happy to announce the release of InvenioRDM v13.1. This is a minor release which will become the maintained tip of v13. Future patches for v13 will land on this minor version only. 
```

Just to reiterate our maintenance pattern to readers.

## What's new?

InvenioRDM v13.1 primarily backports the [request reviewers feature](/maintenance/architecture/requests/#reviewers-in-requests) to InvenioRDM v13.

This feature allows the selection of users (or groups) as "reviewers" for requests.
The selected reviewers will gain access to the request and its timeline (i.e. associated events and comments), and be able to comment on the request too.

!!! warning "Enabling the feature requires reindexing the requests"
    The information about the set of reviewers is stored in a new field in the request itself, so the schema has changed.
    Enabling the feature will require the search mappings to be updated, and the requests to be reindexed.

>     For more details, see the [upgrade section below](#upgrading-from-v130-to-v131).

Reviewer: Shall we create a `docs/releases/v13/upgrade-v13.1.md` file to keep it standard like others or is this very small?

Author: From my current POV, the upgrade recipe will be very small; basically just the "update mappings" command + reindexing requests.

I've been following the same structure here as we did for v9.1 back in the day: https://inveniordm.docs.cern.ch/releases/v9/version-v9.1.0/#upgrading-to-v91

* [`Invenio-RDM-Records` v20.2.0](https://pypi.org/project/invenio-rdm-records/20.2.0/): Renaming of several `React-Overridable` IDs; the full list of changed IDs is available in the [changelog for v20.2.0](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-rdm-records/blob/v20.2.0/CHANGES.rst?plain=1)

## Upgrading from v13.0 to v13.1

The first step of the upgrade process is of course to install the new packages.  
To do so, make sure that the version specifiers for the Invenio-App-RDM dependency in your project definition (`pyproject.toml`, `Pipfile`, ...) allow for the `13.1.x` range of releases, e.g. `invenio-app-rdm[opensearch2]~=13.1.0`.

The new packages should be found and installed via `invenio-cli install`.  
If the v13.1 release of Invenio-App-RDM still doesn't get pulled in, remove your lock file (`uv.lock`, `Pipfile.lock`, ...) and try again.

After installing the new packages, you'll need to update the search mappings for the requests index, and reindex all requests.

```bash
# update the search mappings for requests to include reviewers
invenio index update requests-request-v1.0.0 --no-check

# start bulk reindexing for all requests

> invenio rdm rebuild-all-indices --order requests

Reviewer: Thanks, will steal that recipe shape for the optional index updates for requesting to join a community.

```

That's it.
Other search indices like request events aren't affected and don't need to be updated.

!!! info "No action needed if you don't want to use the feature"
    If you *do not* intend to enable the request reviewers feature, no further action is necessary after upgrading the installed packages.

>     But updating the mappings won't hurt either.

Reviewer: Yeah, probably a good idea to do in case other updates down the line assume those fields are in the document index.
